feat: add interop access list (#214)
ethereum-optimism/design-docs: protocol/interop-access-list.md

The main downside with this approach is that it couples key security properties to the resource schedule, which is subject to change over time. Keeping the cognitive overhead of having to test a codepath every time that the gas schedule changes can create pain.

### Implementation example

The `WARM_READ_THRESHOLD` value is up for debate, the cost difference between hot and cold is very large, but it would be good to have a consensus over it. The `calculateChecksum` will be expanded on the specs doc.

```solidity
uint256 internal constant WARM_READ_THRESHOLD = 150;

function _isWarm(bytes32 _slot) internal view returns (bool isWarm, uint256 result) {
    assembly {
        let startGas := gas()
        result := sload(_slot)
        let endGas := gas()
        isWarm := iszero(gt(sub(startGas, endGas), WARM_READ_COST))
    }
 }

function validateMessage(Identifier calldata _id, bytes32 _msgHash) external {
    bytes32 checksum = calculateChecksum(_id, _msgHash);

    (bool _isSlotWarm,) = _isWarm(checksum);

>     if (!_isSlotWarm) revert NotWarm();

Reviewer: Important detail from previous discussion to document here: the storage-warmup is rolled back when the `revert` happens. That means that prior invalid message lookups will not cause later lookups of the same checksum to appear valid.

```

Example using the `L2toL2CDM` without access-list in the transaction. The `L2toL2CDM` is not needed, it is being used for diagram clarity, any contract can call the `validateMessage` function.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    Relayer->>L2toL2CDM: tx without access-list
    L2toL2CDM->>+CrossL2Inbox: validateMessage(Identifier, msgHash)
    CrossL2Inbox-->>CrossL2Inbox: isWarm( checksum(Identifier, msgHash) )
    Note over CrossL2Inbox: Gas cost > WARM_READ_COST
    CrossL2Inbox-->>L2toL2CDM: revert NotWarm()
```

### Alternatives considered

Alternative solutions that kept the current dynamic declaration approach were explored. The most prominent one involved adding locking and unlocking functionality to the `CrossL2Inbox`. If the transaction referenced an invalid message, then that transaction would be included at the top of the next block when the `CrossL2Inbox` was locked. Because it was locked, the invalid transaction would revert. If it referenced an valid transaction, then it would be included when the `CrossL2Inbox` was unlocked. A special transaction took care of locking and unlocking the `CrossL2Inbox`.

### Security considerations

> - Future changes in gas cost can affect this solution

Reviewer: We may want to exand on this note that gas-introspection is fragile, and will need expert review with every EVM storage/call gas behavior change.
A custom opcode or precompile could do the access-list check in the future instead, to not rely on gas-introspection, if the gas-introspection is considered too problematic.

> - Every message requires at most 3 entries in the access list and at least 2, therefore it will warms at most 3 and at least 2 storage slots, of which we only care about one. It's important that the checksum of the `Identifier` and `messageHash` data parameters provided to the `validateMessage` function doesn't result in one of these slots. We should ensure this scenario is statistically infeasible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Every message requires at most 3 entries in the access list and at least 2, therefore it will warms at most 3 and at least 2 storage slots, of which we only care about one. It's important that the checksum of the `Identifier` and `messageHash` data parameters provided to the `validateMessage` function doesn't result in a slot warmed for any other reason than a prior non-reverting `validateMessage`. We should ensure there is no accidental storage collision that warms up an unverified checksum.
```
